README.md, before:

# Jaysen Naidoo (ZA) WikiWebLog & PublicText instance

## About Me

Jaysen Naidoo - dreams of public software. living in Johannesburg, South Africa.
See the [About Me](/about.md) page for more information.

## The WikiWeblog

- [Wiki Section](/wiki/home.md)
- [Blog Section](/blog/home.md)

## MetaWeb Commons Section

- bookmarks, annotations and wiki for the web. (coming soon)



-------------------------------------------

## What is PublicText?

PublicText is an experimental platform combining the power of Git's version control with the dynamic world of public discourse, web browsing, social bookmarking, wikis and blogging. It's designed to enhance how we manage, share, and interact with information in a transparent, collaborative online space.

See the [PublicText](https://github.com/jaysen/publictext/) repo for more information.


## Key Features of the ecosystem

- **Plain text**: Using Markdown for simple, flexible content creation and editing. Tags and more complex metadata is stored using an open plaintext protocol. 
- **Immutable Public Records**: Leveraging Git for transparent, reliable record-keeping.
- **Consensus and Reputation Mechanisms**: Empowering community-driven content management and peer review.
- **Fluid Control Settings**: Flexibility with public, semi-public, and private content settings.
- **MetaWeb Commons Functionality**: A browser extension that integrates Git repositories that contain discussion and notes about web pages with the web browsing experience.
- **Social Bookmarking and Blogging**: Interactive platforms for content creation and sharing.
- **Desktop and Mobile UI**: Accessible interfaces for diverse devices, enhancing user interaction, content discovery and creation, and community engagement.
- **Web API**: A central conduit for seamless data integration and communication.
- **ActivityPub**: integration with the decentralized social networking protocol.

## Public Text Template

### Setting Up Your Git Repository

- Clone this repository to start a new Public Text repository that can then be used with the browser extension and tooling.

### Directory Structure

The directory structure for a Public Text repository is as follows:

- **blog**: Contains blog posts
  - **year** (eg 2023)
    - **month** (eg 01)
      - **day** (eg 01)
        - date.md: (eg 20231217.md) Contains the blog post
        - title.md: other posts for the day
- **wiki**: Contains wiki pages
- **notes**: Contains notes
- **media**: Contains media files
- **metaweb**: Contains bookmarks, annotations and notes about web pages
  - **sites**: (eg www.example.com.md) folder containing all web pages with data for that site
    - [modified url].md: (eg www.example.com-folder-page.md)
  - **bookmarks**
  - **notes**
  - **annotations**
  - **indexes**: Contains indexes for web pages
  - **tags**: tag indexes for metaweb content
- **tags**: Contains tag indexes for the entire repository
- **indexes**: Contains indexes for the entire repository
- **community**: Contains community content
  - **discussion**: Contains discussion threads
  - **profiles**: Contains user profiles
  - **groups**: Contains group profiles
  - **settings**: Contains settings files
  - **indexes**: Contains indexes for community content
  - **tags**: Contains tag indexes for community content
- **settings**: Contains settings files



## License
- GPLv3: https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html 
- see [LICENSE](LICENSE) for more information

## Contributing
- See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for information on contributing to this project.

Commit message:

updated Wanted Features of the Ecosystem - from PublicTxt Readme.md

README.md, after:

# Jaysen Naidoo (ZA) WikiWebLog & PublicText instance

## About Me

Jaysen Naidoo - dreams of public software. living in Johannesburg, South Africa.
See the [About Me](/about.md) page for more information.

## The WikiWeblog

- [Wiki Section](/wiki/home.md)
- [Blog Section](/blog/home.md)

## MetaWeb Commons Section

- bookmarks, annotations and wiki for the web. (coming soon)



-------------------------------------------

## What is PublicText?

PublicText is an experimental platform combining the power of Git's version control with the dynamic world of public discourse, web browsing, social bookmarking, wikis and blogging. It's designed to enhance how we manage, share, and interact with information in a transparent, collaborative online space.

See the [PublicText](https://github.com/jaysen/publictext/) repo for more information.


## Wanted Features of the Ecosystem

- **Plain text**: Using Markdown for simple, flexible content creation and editing. Tags and more complex metadata is stored using an open plaintext protocol.
- **Rich Semantic Syntax**: Using RDF Semantic Edges and Weighted Attributes and Weighted Links/Edges 
- **Compatibility** Plaintext PublicTxt Syntax should be consistent with Obsidian and Obsidian DataView Plugin links and attributes 
- **Feature Rich UI** Making all the other features easy to use, while storing as much data as possible in plaintext with PublicTxt Syntax
- **Desktop and Mobile UI**: Accessible interfaces for diverse devices, enhancing user interaction, content discovery and creation, and community engagement.
- **Fluid Community Controls**: Flexibility with public, semi-public, and private content settings.
- **TerminusDb Backend**: Use richly featured, collaboration focused, versioned Graph Database like TerminusDb to store the Knowledge Graph  in memory for faster use of the graph in ecosystem applications
- **Social Bookmarking and Blogging**: A standard for storing MetaWeb (SideWiki like) data about web resources. This to be used with  Interactive platforms for content creation and sharing.
- **MetaWeb Commons Functionality**: A browser extension that integrates Git repositories that contain discussion and notes about web pages with the web browsing experience.
- **Immutable Public Records**: Leveraging Git commits - possibly in combination with other forms of distributed ledgers - for transparent and reliable record-keeping.
- **Consensus and Reputation Mechanisms**: Empowering community-driven content management and peer review.
- **Web API**: A central conduit for seamless data integration and communication.
- **Interoperability**: Compatibility with other systems and standards, such as ActivityPub and the W3C Web Annotation Data Model.
- **Decentralisation**: A distributed, peer-to-peer network of repositories, with no central authority.
- **Static Web Generation**: Generating static websites from PublicTxt repositories.
- **Data Portability**: Easy import and export of data in standard formats.

## Public Text Template

### Setting Up Your Git Repository

- Clone this repository to start a new Public Text repository that can then be used with the browser extension and tooling.

### Directory Structure

The directory structure for a Public Text repository is as follows:

- **blog**: Contains blog posts
  - **year** (eg 2023)
    - **month** (eg 01)
      - **day** (eg 01)
        - date.md: (eg 20231217.md) Contains the blog post
        - title.md: other posts for the day
- **wiki**: Contains wiki pages
- **notes**: Contains notes
- **media**: Contains media files
- **metaweb**: Contains bookmarks, annotations and notes about web pages
  - **sites**: (eg www.example.com.md) folder containing all web pages with data for that site
    - [modified url].md: (eg www.example.com-folder-page.md)
  - **bookmarks**
  - **notes**
  - **annotations**
  - **indexes**: Contains indexes for web pages
  - **tags**: tag indexes for metaweb content
- **tags**: Contains tag indexes for the entire repository
- **indexes**: Contains indexes for the entire repository
- **community**: Contains community content
  - **discussion**: Contains discussion threads
  - **profiles**: Contains user profiles
  - **groups**: Contains group profiles
  - **settings**: Contains settings files
  - **indexes**: Contains indexes for community content
  - **tags**: Contains tag indexes for community content
- **settings**: Contains settings files



## License
- GPLv3: https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html 
- see [LICENSE](LICENSE) for more information

## Contributing
- See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for information on contributing to this project.
